1. What is React?

React is a JavaScript library used to build user interfaces, especially for web applications. It was developed by Facebook, now Meta. React allows developers to create reusable UI components and build dynamic single-page applications.

2. Is React a library or framework?

React is a JavaScript library, not a complete framework.

It mainly focuses on building the user interface. Other features, such as routing and state management, can be added using external libraries like React Router and Redux.

3. What is a component?

A component is a reusable and independent part of a user interface.

For example, a website can have separate components for:

Header

Navbar

Button

Footer

Login Form

Product Card

Example:

function Welcome() {
    return <h1>Welcome to React</h1>;
}

4. Why are components important?

Components are important because they:

Promote code reusability

Make code easier to maintain

Divide a large UI into smaller parts

Make debugging easier

Improve project organization

Allow independent development of UI sections

For example, one reusable Button component can be used on multiple pages.

5. What is JSX?

JSX stands for JavaScript XML.

It is a syntax extension for JavaScript that allows us to write HTML-like code inside JavaScript. JSX makes it easier to design and understand the UI structure.

Example:

const element = <h1>Hello React</h1>;

JSX is converted into regular JavaScript before it runs in the browser.

6. What is the Virtual DOM?

The Virtual DOM is a lightweight, in-memory representation of the Real DOM.

When the state or data of a React application changes, React first updates the Virtual DOM. It then compares the updated Virtual DOM with the previous version and updates only the necessary parts of the Real DOM.

This helps React update the user interface efficiently.

7. What is the Real DOM?

The Real DOM, or Document Object Model, is the actual structure of an HTML document created and maintained by the browser.

It represents elements such as:

Headings

Paragraphs

Buttons

Images

Forms

When the Real DOM is updated, the browser may need to recalculate layouts and repaint parts of the page, which can be expensive when many changes occur.

8. What is reconciliation?

Reconciliation is the process React uses to compare the previous Virtual DOM with the updated Virtual DOM.

React identifies what has changed and updates only those required changes in the Real DOM.

For example, if only one text value changes in a list, React tries to update that specific part instead of rebuilding the entire page.